hey everybody it's the witch doctor here
and I'm gonna be doing some tutorials on
lettering and typefaces and how to draw
different styles of type so I'm just
gonna start with something real basic
here and just do some basic block
lettering show you an easy way to get
going with that and this really serves
as the kind of foundation for a lot of
other styles and things like that so I'd
like to use these bigs of note cards
they have lines on them so you don't
have to go into wrong lines or anything
like that they're a good size to fit
like just one word on and they come in
packs of like 300 so you don't feel bad
going through so you start off you just
need a pencil and an eraser and I'm
gonna use the word pearl just for all of
these because it seems like a nice easy
word to start off with so just to give
you an idea of what we're gonna do we're
going to print out the letters and
pencil then you outline then you draw
boxes around the lines you outline that
with marker and then you can erase the
pencil lines so I'm just gonna start by
printing the word pearl and you could
kind of do this printing in however
stuck whatever style you want that could
be all caps like this could be upper and
lower case whatever your personal kind
of style printing is it's going to come
out here so use a different color to
show you the next step here just gonna
use a pink marker too and the idea here
is you draw boxes to get a block letter
just boxes blocks around each stroke so
you just do that and at this point we're
not too worried about intersecting lines
or anything like that I mean
you could still do this in pencil
ideally so that you could erase it after
but just for ease of visibility here I'm
gonna be doing it in this marker so you
just draw boxes around each stroke there
like I said you can put these you know
intersect they don't have to be super
clean this is just to give you the basic
kind of outline and structure of the
letter and then what we do is just out
on the whole thing to get our final
letter structure
so you can kind of see that and I'll do
this in another color the full outline
so if you just go wrong on the outside
of the letter you can see that you have
a figure sort of outline of the letter
the block style and that's where you get
that and like I said this is kind of the
foundation for adding other things so
let's say on this a you wanted this
crossbar to come out a little bit more
so you could just draw that in as you
outline it and that's where you get to
experiment and try different things and
see what you like and see what you think
works and doesn't work like you could do
this top a bunch of different ways see
how it intersects you could go out with
that outline there so there's still room
to kind of add your own personal flair
to it
so now you kind of get that extending
bar through there and looks sloppy now
but if we were just safe filling these
letters with the same pink color then
you'll notice how it really starts to
come together
and if you did it pencil if you were not
wanting to you know fill it with the
same color that you drew it yeah you
were just erase these after you got on
it so you could go through and erase
these lines this is gonna shake the
camera tongue so I'm not gonna go bother
with that I'll just kind of roughly fill
this then so you can just kind of get an
idea of
looks off the field and state so this
would work if we were trying to make
something italic you're just printing
that italic style it works for bubble
letters just draw a different shape and
so the voxi draw kind of more of an oval
shape rounder and then you'll sort of
get the same effect kind of a bubbly fat
letter so it's just real quick filling
to give me a sense of how that looks
look you got a nice little lock letter
to start off with there and of course
you can add any kind of ornamentation
that you want to take like a thicker
marker I kind of think that this looks
good sometimes we need nice
so the nice thing about this technique
is that you can do this this is the same
way that graffiti artists learn how to
draw their lettering you could do it if
you were just an arts and crafts person
trying to make cards or signs if you're
trying to learn graphic design even
though all the type is on the computer
these days hand drawing and letters can
really help you learn those subtle
differences between different fonts and
you'll start just really start to look
at the details of them so it's a good
it's a good learning tool it's a good
way to just come in develop your eye and
ideally you eventually learn the shapes
of these letters and you don't have to
go through this whole process of
printing and drawing the blocks it'll
just kind of know how the letters are
supposed to shape up just be able to
draw them out directly
so there we go kind of filled in a
little bit and I think that's all for
this one please leave any questions you
have or comments in the comment section
below and subscribe because I'm plans to
do a bunch more of these and we'll keep
advancing as we go along so thanks for
watching hope to see you next time